The Ulwazi theme Demo
=====================

Ulwazi (Xhosa for information) is a Sphinx theme based on
`Vanilla Framework <https://github.com/canonical/vanilla-framework>`_.

Using Ulwazi
------------

For guidance on how to use the theme for your documentation, see the :doc:`content/use`.

If you want to contribute to the Ulwazi, check our :doc:`content/contribute`.

Testing
-------

A Makefile includes some basic functionality to build the theme and then build and run the test content with the theme.

To build the sample documentation using the theme, run:

.. code-block:: shell

   make run

This command sets up a virtual environment, installs dependencies, builds the theme, then builds the documentation in this repository, and serves the result via a local web server.

The resulting environment tracks changes in the sample content and rebuilds the local website automatically. However, changes to the theme might require a full rebuild of the theme package:

.. code-block:: shell

   make rebuild

This command runs ``make clean`` to delete files built earlier, and then runs ``make run`` again.

If you change dependencies (for example, add a new Sphinx extension to the ``docs/requirements.txt`` file), you must rebuild the virtual environment entirely. You can do this by manually deleting the ``.venv`` folder or by running:

.. code-block:: shell

   make fclean

Contributing
------------

The theme files are located in the ``ulwazi`` folder:

* ``__init__.py`` — initialization script for the theme.
* ``navigation.py`` — modifies the global TOC navigation tree.
* ``theme/ulwazi/`` — contains the theme files.

  * ``theme.toml`` — theme configuration file.
  * ``static`` — static content used by the theme without processing.
  * Other files — HTML templates for Sphinx using the Jinja templating engine.

If you want to modify the HTML code of a page generated by Sphinx before the theme is applied, see the ``_html_page_context`` function definition in the initialization script.


First heading (h2)
------------------

Lorem ipsum

Sub-heading (h3)
****************

Lorem ipsum

Second heading! (h2)
--------------------

.. rst-class:: heading-test-scss

This is a test about scss propagation


Some content.

.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   
   self
   content/test
   content/contribute
   content/use

