# The Ulwazi theme Demo

This is a demonstration website for the Ulwazi Sphinx theme.

Ulwazi (Xhosa for information) is a Sphinx theme based on [Vanilla Framework](https://github.com/canonical/vanilla-framework).

It is designed to be used with Canonical's [Starter Pack](https://github.com/canonical/starter-pack).

For contribution guidelines, see the {doc}`content/contribute`.

For guidance on how to use the theme for your documentation, see the {doc}`content/use`.

## Build and test

A Makefile includes some basic functionality to build the theme and then build and run sample set of content with the theme.

To build the sample documentation using the theme, run:

```shell
make run
```

This command sets up a virtual environment, installs dependencies, builds the theme, then builds the documentation in this repository, and serves the result via a local web server.

The resulting environment tracks changes in the sample content and rebuilds the local website automatically. However, changes to the theme might require a full rebuild of the theme package:

```shell
make rebuild
```

This command runs `make clean` to delete files built earlier, and then runs `make run` again.

If you change dependencies (for example, add a new Sphinx extension to the `docs/requirements.txt` file), you must rebuild the virtual environment entirely. You can do this by manually deleting the `.venv` folder or by running:

```shell
make fclean
```

## Contributing

The theme files are located in the `ulwazi` folder:

- `__init__.py` — initialization script for the theme.
- `navigation.py` — modifies the global TOC navigation tree.
- `theme/ulwazi/` — contains the theme files.
  - `theme.toml` — theme configuration file.
  - `static` — static content used by the theme without processing.
  - Other files — HTML templates for Sphinx using the Jinja templating engine.

If you want to modify the HTML code of a page generated by Sphinx before the theme is applied, see the `_html_page_context` function definition in the initialization script.

## First h2 heading

This is some sample content.

### Sub-heading (h3)

More text, but in a sub-section.

## Second heading! (h2)

And we are back to the h2 level section text.

```{rst-class} heading-test-scss
```

This is a test about scss propagation

Some content.

```{toctree}
:hidden:

self
content/test
content/contribute
content/use
```
